
Hall went to clear away the stranger's lunch, her idea that his mouth must also have been cut or disfigured in the accident she supposed him to have suffered, was confirmed, for he was smoking a pipe, and all the time that she was in the room he never loosened the silk muffler he had wrapped round the lower part of his face to put the mouthpiece to his lips. "It's that," he said. It was quite clean, and then he remembered that the door of his room had been open when he came down from his study, and that consequently he had not touched the handle at all. Hall took his dinner in to him, he was already so absorbed in his work, pouring little drops out of the bottles into test-tubes, that he did not hear her untilshe had swept away the bulk of the straw and put the tray on the table, with some little emphasis perhaps, seeing the state that the floor was in. In a little while he was hard at work again, and the only sounds in the room were the ticking of the clock and the subdued shrillness of his quill, hurrying in the very centre of the circle of light his lampshade threw on his table. Bunting was now in the hall, and through the crack of the door he could see the desk and the open drawer and a candle burning on the desk. Said he was. "All the facts are out about you," said Kemp, standing up with the glass in his hand; "all that happened in Iping, and down the hill. "But it's in the paper," said the mariner. Then the policeman, who had been trying to pass the barman, rushed in, followed by one of the cabmen, gripped the wrist of the invisible hand that collared Marvel, was hit in the face and went reeling back. Then, as he stood with an expression of passive amazement on his face, the rapid feet came to the door of the dressing-room and that too was locked. Them as stops in this house comes in by the doors—that's the rule of the house, and that you didn't do, and what I want to know is how you did come in. Although the fire was burning up briskly, she was surprised to see that her visitor still wore his hat and coat, standing with his back to her and staring out of the window at the falling snow in the yard. The window of the inn was suddenly smashed in, and there was a screaming and running to and fro in the street. But the smaller boy was sharp-eyed enough to follow the movement, and before I was well down the steps and upon the pavement, he had recovered from his momentary astonishment and was shouting out that the feet had gone over the wall. And directly the crates were unpacked, the stranger went to the window and set to work, not troubling in the least about the litter of straw, the fire which had gone out, the box of books outside, nor for the trunks and other luggage that had gone upstairs. And even as he did so the flap of the bar was shut down and the bolt clicked, and then with a tremendous thud the catch of the door snapped and the bar-parlour door burst open. He held a white cloth—it was a serviette he had brought with him—over the lower part of his face, so that his mouth and jaws were completely hidden, and that was the reason of his muffled voice. CHAPTER VII THE UNVEILING OF THE STRANGER

 The stranger went into the little parlour of the "Coach and Horses" about half-past five in the morning, and there he remained until near midday, the blinds down, the door shut, and none, after Hall's repulse, venturing near him. It was the strangest thing in the world to see it in the flicker of the flashes soft and white, and then to watch it fade like a wreath ofsmoke and vanish. As they came up the cellar steps they both, it was afterwards ascertained, fancied they heard the front door open and shut, but seeing it closed and nothing there, neither said a word to the other about it at the time. He left the door open behind him, and without looking at her strode across the hall and went down the steps, and she heard his feet hurrying along the road. he said. he said. he said. he said. he said. he said. he said. he said. he said. he said. he said. he said. he said. said Hall, and the stranger shut the door clumsily and went into the bar. Jaffers clutched at it, and only helped to pull it off; he was struck in the mouth out of the air, and incontinently threw his truncheon and smote Teddy Henfrey savagely upon the crown of his head. Fearenside, and either accepted the piebald view or some modification of it; as, for instance, Silas Durgan, who was heard to assert that "if he chooses to show enself at fairs he'd make his fortune in no time," and being a bit of a theologian, compared the stranger to the man with the one talent. He stood there in the hall undecided what to do, and Mrs. The only light in the room was the red glow from the fire— which lit his eyes like adverse railway signals, but left his downcast face in darkness—and the scanty vestiges of the day that came in through the open door. And what was stranger, even to his heavy intelligence, on the bedroom chair and along the rail of the bed were scattered the garments, the only garments so far as he knew, and the bandages of their guest. But there was nothing to throw light on the connexion between the Invisible Man and the Tramp; for Mr. Henfrey not only took off the hands of the clock, and the face, but extracted the works; and he tried to work in as slow and quiet and unassuming a manner as possible. But returning with the bottle, he noticed that the bolts of the front door had been shot back, that the door was in fact simply on the latch. He recognised the voice as that of the Invisible Man, and the note was that of a man suddenly infuriated by a painful blow. He gripped at the waistcoat; it struggled, and the shirt slipped out of it and left it limp and empty in his hand. "Money," said the Invisible Man, and went again to stare out of the window. Huxter to turn to the left and open the door of the parlour. Such a crowd, chanting in the roadway and scoffing on the pavement, I could not hope to penetrate, and dreading to go back and farther from home again, and deciding on the spur of the moment, I ran up the white steps of a house facing the museum railings, and stood there until the crowd should have passed. The Invisible Man amused himself for a little while by breaking all the windows in the "Coach and Horses," and then he thrust a street lamp through the parlour window of Mrs. Hall," he said. "He's not in the kitchen," said the barman. Gibbons had heard nothing of the morning's occurrences, but the phenomenon was so striking and disturbing that his philosophical tranquillity vanished; he got up hastily, and hurried down the steepness of the hill towards the village, as fast as he could go. "It occurred to me that the radiators, if they fell into the hands of some acute well-educated person, would give me away too much, and watching my opportunity, I came into the room and tilted one of the little dynamos off its fellow on which it was standing, and smashed both apparatus. 'The devil's in the basket,' I said, and suddenly twisted it out of his hand. He was wrapped up from head to foot, and the brim of his soft felt hat hid every inch of his face but the shiny tip of his nose; the snow had piled itself against his shoulders and chest, and added a white crest to the burden he carried. It was the strangest thing in the world to hear that voice coming as if out of empty space, but the Sussex peasants are perhaps the most matter-of-fact people under the sun. "It's a steep road by the down, sir," she said in answer to the question about a trap; and then, snatching at an opening, said, "It was there a carriage was upsettled, a year ago and more. His goggling spectacles and ghastly bandaged face under the penthouse of his hat, came with a disagreeable suddenness out of the darkness upon one or two home-going labourers, and Teddy Henfrey, tumbling out of the "Scarlet Coat" one night, at half-past nine, was scared shamefully by the stranger's skull-like head (he was walking hat in hand) lit by the sudden light of the opened inn door. He turned the corner of the church, and directed his way to the "Coach and Horses." "It's not the drink," said the Voice. "When I came into this room," continued the Invisible Man, after presenting the poker to the tip of the nose of each of his visitors, "I did not expect to find it occupied, and I expected to find, in addition to my books of memoranda, an outfit of clothing. said the Invisible Man. It was ten days after—and indeed only when the Burdock story was already old—that the mariner collated these facts and began to understand how near he had been to the wonderfulInvisible Man. These were the claws and the pigment stuff, what is it?—at the back of the eye in a cat. And suddenly and most wonderfully the door of the room upstairs opened of its own accord, and as they looked up in amazement, they saw descending the stairs the muffled figure of the stranger staring more blackly and blankly than ever with those unreasonably large blue glass eyes of his. You're a fool and all that, but you'll do—" "I tell you, sir, I'm not the man for it. He tried to resume his work, failed, got up, went downstairs from his study to the landing, rang, and called over the balustrade to the housemaid as she appeared in the hall below. She opened the door wide, so that the room was lighter, and she saw him more clearly, with the muffler held up to his face just as she had seen him hold the serviette before. As he opened the kitchen door he saw through the scullery that the back door was just opening, and the faint light of early dawn displayed the dark masses of the garden beyond. He closed the door of the room, came forward to the dressing-table, and put down his burdens. He turned his head over his shoulder to the right, to look at the boots of his interlocutor with a view to comparisons, and lo! "It was night outside long before the business was over, and nothing was to be seen but the dim eyes and the claws. The face of Mr. "Draw the bolts," said the man with the black beard, "and if he comes—" He showed a revolver in his hand. CHAPTER XI IN THE "COACH AND HORSES" 

Now in order clearly to understand what had happened in the inn, it is necessary to go back to the moment when Mr. As the barman entered the room he saw Marvel, curiously crumpled up and struggling against the door that led to the yard and kitchen. "That's all," said the Voice. Kemp was a tall and slender young man, with flaxen hair and a moustache almost white, and the work he was upon would earn him, he hoped, the fellowship of the Royal Society, so highly did he think of it. He stopped at the foot of the "Coach and Horses" steps, and, according to Mr. The Invisible Man's wrist was growing painful; he was feverish, exhausted, and his mind came round to brood upon his chase down the hill and the struggle about the inn. As Hall stood there he heard his wife's voice coming out of the depth of the cellar, with that rapid telescoping of the syllables and interrogative cocking up of the final words to a high note, by which the West Sussex villager is wont to indicate a brisk impatience. And suddenly the parlour door was opened, and Mr. He worked with the lamp close to him, and the green shade threw a brilliant light upon his hands, and upon the frame and wheels, and left the rest of the room shadowy. He looked about him again, listened, bent towards the mariner, and lowered his voice: "The fact of it is—I happen—to know just a thing or two about this Invisible Man. The voice of the Invisible Man was heard for the first time, yelling out sharply, as the policeman trod on his foot. "I had never realised it before, but the nose is to the mind of a dog what the eye is to the mind of a seeing man. Kemp's scientific pursuits have made him a very observant man, and as he recrossed the hall, he noticed a dark spot on the linoleum near the mat at the foot of the stairs. Now when Hall and Henfrey and the labourers ran out of the house, Mrs. He got up, went to the window, and stared at the dusky hillside, and the dark little figure tearing down it. I let the whole down with a smash on the cabman, and then, with shouts and the clatter of feet about me, people coming out of shops, vehicles pulling up, I realised what I had done for myself, and cursing my folly, backed against a shop window and prepared to dodge out of the confusion. This stranger, to the perceptions of the proprietor of the cocoanut shy, appeared to be talking to himself, and Mr. The one thought that possessed me was—how was I to get out of the scrape I was in. "It's there again," said Mr. "Leave the hat," said her visitor, in a muffled voice, and turning she saw he had raised his head and was sitting and looking at her. "Invisible Man," said Cuss, and rushed on to the window. said Mr. said Mr. said Mr. said Mr. said Mr. said Mr. said Mr. said Mr. said Mr. said Mr. said Mr. said Mr. said Mr. said Mr. said Mr. said Mr. said Mr. said Mr. said Mr. said Mr. said Mr. said Mr. said Mr. said Mr. said Mr. said Mr. said Mr. He caught it up, turned it over, and read the account of a "Strange Story from Iping" that the mariner at Port Stowe had spelt over so painfully to Mr. Henfrey stopped to discover this, but Hall and the two labourers from the Tap rushed at once to the corner, shouting incoherent things, and saw Mr. said the Voice. said the Voice. said the Voice. "H'm," said the Voice. CHAPTER VIII IN TRANSIT 

The eighth chapter is exceedingly brief, and relates that Gibbons, the amateur naturalist of the district, while lying out on the spacious open downs without a soul within a couple of miles of him, as he thought, and almost dozing, heard close to him the sound as of a man coughing, sneezing, and then swearing savagely to himself; and looking, beheld nothing. Then I slipped up again with a box of matches, fired my heap of paper and rubbish, put the chairs and bedding thereby, led the gas to the affair, by means of an india-rubber tube, and waving a farewell to the room left it for the last time." It is so much easier not to believe in an invisible man; and those who had actually seen him dissolve into air, or felt the strength of his arm, could be counted on the fingers of two hands. "You are," said the Voice. He took a mouthful, glanced suspiciously at the window, took another mouthful, then rose and, taking the serviette in his hand, walked across the room and pulled the blind down to the top of the white muslin that obscured the lower panes. The frantic gesticulations they surprised now and then, the headlong pace after nightfall that swept him upon them round quiet corners, the inhuman bludgeoning of all tentative advances of curiosity, the taste for twilight that led to the closing of doors, the pulling down of blinds, the extinction of candles and lamps— who could agree with such goings on? "That ain't right," he said, and came round from behind the bar towards the parlour door. The bones and sinews and the fat were the last to go, and the tips of the coloured hairs. "Thank you," he said at the same time, and did not stir until she was closing the door. He was staying, it says, at the 'Coach an' Horses,' and no one don't seem to have been aware of his misfortune, it says, aware of his misfortune, until in an Altercation in the inn, it says, his bandages on his head was torn off. After I'd given the stuff to bleach the blood and done certain other things to her, I gave the beast opium, and put her and the pillow she was sleeping on, on the apparatus. The unhappy-looking figure in the obsolete silk hat passed up the street of the little village with his burdens, and vanished into the gathering darkness beyond the lights of the windows. He glared at me as I went by him, and I made the house quiver with the slamming of my door. But for a second it seemed to her that the man she looked at had an enormous mouth wide open—a vast and incredible mouth that swallowed the whole of the lower portion of his face. He went to the south window, threw it up, and leaning out stared down on the network of windows, beaded gas-lamps and shops, with its black interstices of roof and yard that made up the town at night. Instead of "seeing 'bout it," however, Hall on his return was severely rated by his wife on the length of time he had spent in Sidderbridge, and his mild inquiries were answered snappishly and in a manner not to the point. Then came the light, and Mr. Then he was struck violently in the chest, hurled back, and the door slammed in his face and locked. And he came down the steps towards the tail of the cart as if to lay hands on the smaller crate. He walked to the head of the staircase, turned, and stared at the locked doors. And with a flash of inspiration he connected this with the stranger's room upstairs and the suggestions of Mr. Bunting, it seems, woke up suddenly in the stillness that comes before the dawn, with the strong impression that the door of their bedroom had opened and closed. He went on upstairs, and then it suddenly occurred to him to ask himself what the spot on the linoleum might be. This gave Kemp the essence of the happenings at the "Jolly Cricketers," and the name of Marvel. And if you will consider only a second, you will see also that the powder of glass might be made to vanish in air, if its refractive index could be made the same as that of air; for then there would be no refraction or reflection as the light passed from glass to air." The old lady peered into the cupboard and under the bed, and one of the young men pushed up the register and stared up the chimney. She rapped down the mustard pot on the table, and then she noticed the overcoat and hat had been taken off and put over a chair in front of the fire, and a pair of wet boots threatened rust to her steel fender. "Thanks," he said concisely, as she put them down, and turned his shoulder upon her and stared out of the window again. She glanced at his white-swathed head and blue goggles again as she was going out of the door; but his napkin was still in front of his face. She was a little doubtful and tried to peer past me into the room; strange enough to her no doubt—bare walls, uncurtained windows, truckle-bed, with the gas engine vibrating, and the seethe of the radiant points, and that faint ghastly stinging of chloroform in the air. On the landing he was surprised to see that the stranger's door was ajar. I sprang to my feet and as noiselessly as possible began to detach the connections of my apparatus, and to distribute it about the room, so as to destroy the suggestions of its arrangement. He looked neither to the right nor the left, but his dilated eyes stared straight downhill to where the lamps were being lit, and the people were crowded in the street. All the afternoon he worked with the door locked and, as Mrs. said the stranger in a tremendous voice, and "Shut that door after you." I looked about me at the hillside, with children playing and girls watching them, and tried to think of all the fantastic advantages an invisible man would have in the world. All he passed stopped and began staring up the road and down, and interrogating one another with an inkling of discomfort for the reason of his haste. For the Invisible Man had handed over the books and bundle in the yard. The invisible rag and pillow came to hand and I opened the window and pitched them out on to the cistern cover. Then as swiftly came the sponge from the washstand; and then the chair, flinging the stranger's coat and trousers carelessly aside, and laughing drily in a voice singularly like the stranger's, turned itself up with its four legs at Mrs. "It's the devil," said Kemp. Directly the first crate was, in accordance with his directions, carried into the parlour, the stranger flung himself upon it with extraordinary eagerness, and began to unpack it, scattering the straw with an utter disregard of Mrs. "Invisible Man," he said. "Was he?" The stranger glanced swiftly at his torn glove and at his leg, made as if he would stoop to the latter, then turned and rushed swiftly up the steps into the inn. Then the vibration of the little gas engine could be felt all over the house, he said. "It's all very wellfor you to laugh, but I tell you I was so startled, I hit his cuff hard, and turned around, and cut out of the room—I left him—" Cuss stopped. I left the filtering I was doing, and went and stared out of the great window at the stars. "Thank you," he said drily, glancing from her to the door and then at her again. "I know what country I'm in," said the man with the beard. As he went down, the rush from the direction of the village green came round the corner. Sussex folk have few superstitions, and it was only after the events of early April that the thought of the supernatural was first whispered in the village. CHAPTER XXII IN THE EMPORIUM "So last January, with the beginning of a snowstorm in the air about me—and if it settled on me it would betray me!—weary, cold, painful, inexpressibly wretched, and still but half convinced of my invisible quality, I began this new life to which I am committed. You see an opaque red box, for instance, because the colour absorbs some of the light and reflects the rest, all the red part of the light, to you. Teddy Henfrey jump to avoid tumbling over her, and then they heard the frightful screams of Millie, who, emerging suddenly from the kitchen at the noise of the tumult, had come upon the headless stranger from behind. "And what's he been up to?" said the anaemic cabman, going off at a tangent, trying to see up the hill over the dirty yellow blind in the low window of the inn. "He was afraid of me, I could see that he was afraid of me," said the Invisible Man many times over. Hall had left the room, he remained standing in front of the fire, glaring, so Mr. 'Everything ready for you,' I said, and went to the window, opened it, and called softly. "I'llsurrender," cried the stranger, though he had Jaffers down, and in another moment he stood up panting, a strange figure, headless and handless—for he had pulled off his right glove now as well as his left. At any rate, he turned with his burden, went back to the hall, put down the syphon and whiskey, and bending down, touched the spot. By the afternoon even those who believed in the Unseen were beginning to resume their little amusements in a tentative fashion, on the supposition that he had quite gone away, and with the sceptics he was already a jest. Hall did not like him, and whenever he dared he talked of the advisability of getting rid of him; but he showed his dislike chiefly by concealing it ostentatiously, and avoiding his visitor as much as possible. They appear to have jumped to the impossible conclusion that this was the Invisible Man suddenly become visible, and set off at once along the lane in pursuit. The hand of the bandaged arm gripped his shoulder, and he was suddenly tripped and flung backwards upon the bed. She screamed and turned, and then the chair legs came gently but firmly against her back and impelled her and Hall out of the room. "When I say here," said the mariner, to Mr. From the moment when the Invisible Man screamed with rage and Mr. Then the pressure on the necks relaxed, and the doctor and the vicar sat up, both very red in the face and wriggling their heads. All my food was in a cupboard in the corner of the room. He heard the servant answer the door, and waited for her feet on the staircase, but she did not come. He had sat down, after one nervous glance out of the window, with the air of a man who has talking to do. He went to the door, released the strap, and it slammed. CHAPTER V THE BURGLARY AT THE VICARAGE

 The facts of the burglary at the vicarage came to us chiefly through the medium of the vicar and his wife. CHAPTER III THE THOUSAND AND ONE BOTTLES 

So it was that on the twenty-ninth day of February, at the beginning of the thaw, this singular person fell out of infinity into Iping village. "The fact is, I'm all here—head, hands, legs, and all the rest of it, but it happens I'm invisible. He said he'd kill me and he will." "And—well..." "You're right," said the mariner. The second labourer came round in a circle, stared, and conceiving that Hall had tumbled over of his own accord, turned to resume the pursuit, only to be tripped by the ankle just as Huxter had been. Hall was about to leave the room—she made no conversational advances this time, because she did not want to be snubbed in front of Mr. One of the younger men rushed to the window at once, flung it up and stared out. But once there was a concussion and a sound of bottles ringing together as though the table had been hit, and the smash of a bottle flung violently down, and then a rapid pacing athwart the room. he cried to Henfrey as he passed the prostrate Huxter, and, coming round the corner to join the tumult, was promptly knocked off his feet into an indecorous sprawl. "But if you betray me," he said, "if you fail to do as I direct you—" He paused and tapped Mr. The barman stood in front of the bar-parlour door which was now locked on Mr. "He's not only invisible," he said, "but he's mad! Then very quietly he pulled his sleeve out of his pocket again, and raised his arm towards me as though he would show it to me again. The bearded man's revolver cracked and the looking-glass at the back of the parlour starred and came smashing and tinkling down. There was a noise of hobnails on the bricks in the bar, and Mrs. I stopped the gas engine, felt for and stroked the beast, which was still insensible, and then, being tired, left it sleeping on the invisible pillow and went to bed. He felt alone in the room and looked up, and there, grey and dim, was the bandaged head and huge blue lenses staring fixedly, with a mist of green spots drifting in front of them. "And if I might make so bold as to ask—" "That I think, is all," said the stranger, with that quietly irresistible air of finality he could assume at will. he said, and their eyes followed the direction of his gloved finger and saw a bottle of sarsaparilla hard by the cellar door. "I'd go in and ask'n 'bout it," said Wadgers, to Mr. She told him she had mentioned the matter to the postman, and that the carrier could bring them over on the morrow. He turned aside, walked out of the room, and went into his little consulting-room and lit the gas there. Now the Greek I thought you—" "Of course," said Mr. said the Invisible Man, sticking to him in spite of a pounding in the ribs. In the course of a few minutes he reappeared, wiping his lips with the back of his hand with an air of quiet satisfaction that somehow impressed Mr. The shirt-sleeve planted a shrewd blow in Hall's face that stopped his open-armed advance, and sent him backward into old Toothsome the sexton, and in another moment the garment was lifted up and became convulsed and vacantly flapping about the arms, even as a shirt that is being thrust over a man's head. cried everyone, and there was a rush at the fluttering white shirt which was now all that was visible of the stranger. CHAPTER XX AT THE HOUSE IN GREAT PORTLAND STREET For a moment Kemp sat in silence, staring at the back of the headless figure at the window. He heard a frightful struggle in the passage of the inn, and his decision was made. All through April and May he coveted an opportunity of talking to the stranger, and at last, towards Whitsuntide, he could stand it no longer, but hit upon the subscription-list for a village nurse as an excuse. And inside, in the artificial darkness of the parlour, into which only one thin jet of sunlight penetrated, the stranger, hungry we must suppose, and fearful, hidden in his uncomfortable hot wrappings, pored through his dark glasses upon his paper or chinked his dirty little bottles, and occasionally swore savagely at the boys, audible if invisible, outside the windows. "The fact is," said the Voice, "I shall have to make use of you.... You're a poor tool, but I must." I shut the door, locked it, and went to the looking-glass. So much we know from what was heard at the time and from what was subsequently seen in the room. And he held up the flap of the bar. "Him and his 'go to the devil' indeed!" Hallsent the knife sliding along the table to Wadgers, who acted as goal-keeper for the offensive, so to speak, and then stepped forward as Jaffers and the stranger swayed and staggered towards him, clutching and hitting in. At Gleeson's corner he saw Hall, who had recently married the stranger's hostess at the "Coach and Horses," and who now drove the Iping conveyance, when occasional people required it, to Sidderbridge Junction, coming towards him on his return from that place. Hall went very aggressively into the parlour and looked very hard at his wife's furniture, just to show that the stranger wasn't master there, and scrutinised closely and a little contemptuously a sheet of mathematical computations the stranger had left. No sooner had Fearenside's dog caught sight of him, however, than it began to bristle and growl savagely, and when he rushed down the steps it gave an undecided hop, and then sprang straight at his hand. The old man went and peered under the bed, and then they all made a rush for the cupboard. He is certain that nothing went out of the door. "Iping's the place he started at," said the mariner. He went on into his own room and found the bottle as he had been directed. He examined the two windows of the bedroom, drew up the blinds and opened the sashes, to confirm Kemp's statement that a retreat by them would be possible. "The money was not his, and he shot himself." I tried to catch it, with an idea of putting it out of the window, but it wouldn't be caught, it vanished. Hall marched up the steps, marched straight to the door of the parlour and flung it open. She was all the more inclined to snap at Hall because the stranger was undoubtedly an unusually strange sort ofstranger, and she was by no means assured about him in her own mind. She stood behind the door, looking at the open door of the parlour. He saw the man just before him and spurting briskly for the church corner and the hill road. Forthwith everyone all down the street, the sweetstuff seller, cocoanut shy proprietor and his assistant, the swing man, little boys and girls, rustic dandies, smart wenches, smocked elders and aproned gipsies—began running towards the inn, and in a miraculously short space of time a crowd of perhaps forty people, and rapidly increasing, swayed and hooted and inquired and exclaimed and suggested, in front of Mrs. And it had, though no man had traced it, invariably ended its mysterious flight in the pocket of that agitated gentleman in the obsolete silk hat, sitting outside the little inn on the outskirts of Port Stowe. He opened his mouth to shout, and the corner of the sheet was thrust between his teeth. But she saw he had removed his glasses; they were beside him on the table, and it seemed to her that his eye sockets were extraordinarily hollow. The door into the bar-parlour from the kitchen slammed and covered Mr. It grew to a climax, diminished again, and died away in the distance, going as it seemed to him in the direction of Adderdean. A feeling of extraordinary elation took the place of my anger as I sat outside the window and watched these four people—for the old lady came in, glancing suspiciously about her like a cat, trying to understand the riddle of my behaviour. For the most part he was quite still during that time; it would seem he sat in the growing darkness smoking in the firelight—perhaps dozing. He made no answer, and had turned his face away from her again, and Mrs. Marvel retorted incoherently and, receding, was hidden by a bend in the road, but the mariner stillstood magnificent in the midst of the way, until the approach of a butcher's cart dislodged him. The yard door—" He rushed out of the bar. "Yes," said the Invisible Man. At the same moment down came three or four bottles from the chiffonnier and shot a web of pungency into the air of the room. For the man who stood there shouting some incoherent explanation, was a solid gesticulating figure up to the coat-collar of him, and then—nothingness, no visible thing at all! Miss Statchell sang it at the schoolroom concert (in aid of the church lamps), and thereafter whenever one or two of the villagers were gathered together and the stranger appeared, a bar or so of this tune, more or less sharp or flat, was whistled in the midst of them. Huxter saw over the canisters of the tobacco window, and the singularity of the man's behaviour prompted him to maintain his observation. and he vanished and closed the door. said the mariner. said the mariner. said the mariner. said the mariner. "I been talking here this ten minutes," he said; "and you, you little pot-bellied, leathery-faced son of an old boot, couldn't have the elementary manners—" "Don't you come bandying words with me," said Mr. he said, and caught up the St. He was struck by the contrast of Mr. And leading the way, she went across to the parlour door and rapped and entered. He had never properly thought out which he hated most, and it was a pleasant day, and there was nothing better to do. Then he examined the keys of the bedroom and the two dressing-room doors, to satisfy himself that these also could be made an assurance of freedom. "I remember walking back to the empty house, through the place that had once been a village and was now patched and tinkered by the jerry builders into the ugly likeness of a town. Everybody, it seemed, was being hit all at once, and Sandy Wadgers, knowing as ever and his wits sharpened by a frightful blow in the nose, reopened the door and led the rout. CHAPTER VI THE FURNITURE THAT WENT MAD 

Now it happened that in the early hours of Whit Monday, before Millie was hunted out for the day, Mr. Just think of all the things that are transparent and seem not to be so. CUSS INTERVIEWS THE STRANGER 

I have told the circumstances of the stranger's arrival in Iping with a certain fulness of detail, in order that the curious impression he created may be understood by the reader. And his eye, presently wandering from his work, caught the sunset blazing at the back of the hill that is over against his own. I could see right down it to the elbow, and there was a glimmer of light shining through a tear of the cloth. He staggered and set off back to the "Coach and Horses" forthwith, leaping over the deserted Huxter, who was now sitting up, on his way. Her visitor had had an accident, she said, which temporarily discoloured his face and hands, and being of a sensitive disposition, he was averse to any public notice of the fact. In another moment he was out in the yard. Wadgers was presently missing, having retired impregnably behind the bolts and bars of his own house, and Jaffers was lying stunned in the parlour of the "Coach and Horses." They wanted him to lead the way upstairs to the room, but he didn't seem to be in any hurry. When dawn came to mingle its pallor with the lamp-light and cigar smoke of the dining-room, Kemp was still pacing up and down, trying to grasp the incredible. Kemp stared at the bandage as it moved across the room, then saw a basket chair dragged across the floor and come to rest near the bed. And with that much introduction, that and a couple ofsovereigns flung upon the table, he took up his quarters in the inn. Thomas Marvel was sitting with his feet in a ditch by the roadside over the down towards Adderdean, about a mile and a half out of Iping. The policeman had been standing on the settee staring out, craning to see who was at the door. Hall was screwing up her courage to go in and ask her visitor if he would take some tea, Teddy Henfrey, the clock-jobber, came into the bar. As soon as the bacon was well under way, and Millie, her lymphatic maid, had been brisked up a bit by a few deftly chosen expressions of contempt, she carried the cloth, plates, and glasses into the parlour and began to lay them with the utmost éclat. MARVEL DISCUSSES HIS RESIGNATION When the dusk was gathering and Iping was just beginning to peep timorously forth again upon the shattered wreckage of its Bank Holiday, a short, thick-set man in a shabby silk hat was marching painfully through the twilight behind the beechwoods on the road to Bramblehurst. He stamped and shook the snow from off himself in the bar, and followed Mrs. Footsteps approached, running heavily, the door was pushed open violently, and Marvel, weeping and dishevelled, his hat gone, the neck of his coat torn open, rushed in, made a convulsive turn, and attempted to shut the door. As it is, I've been knocked about—" "You'll get knocked about a great deal more if you don't mind," said the Voice, and Mr. "'You said it was an empty sleeve?' She was about to complain of the straw on the floor when he anticipated her. "So be it," said Mrs. Hall, standing open-mouthed and horror-struck, shrieked at what she saw, and made for the door of the house. It was with the greatest difficulty that Mr. "Come along," cried an angry voice in the doorway, and there stood the muffled stranger with his collar turned up, and his hat-brim bent down. At last he rapped, opened the door, and got as far as, "Excuse me—" "Go to the devil!" "But I'm really glad to have the clock seen to," he said, seeing a certain hesitation in Mr. "It's fact," he said. I turned down the gas again, stepped out of the window on the cistern cover, very softly lowered the sash, and sat down, secure and invisible, but quivering with anger, to watch events. And just think of the things he might do! "Very," he said. Where'd you be, if he took a drop over and above, and had a fancy to go for you? and it seemed an interminable time to me before the tide of the crowd washed along the pavement by me. "I'm sorry," said the Invisible Man, "if I cannot tell you all that I have done to-night. Outside the night was very quiet and still, and the new moon was setting over the down. Marvel, unshaven, dirty, and travel-stained, sitting with the books beside him and his hands deep in his pockets, looking very weary, nervous, and uncomfortable, and inflating his cheeks at infrequent intervals, on the bench outside a little inn on the outskirts of Port Stowe. Her visitor, she saw as she opened the door, was seated in the armchair before the fire, dozing it would seem, with his bandaged head drooping on one side. I slipped the bolts of the front door quietly and went out into the street. They drew aside as he passed down the village, and when he had gone by, young humourists would up with coat-collars and down with hat-brims, and go pacing nervously after him in imitation of his occult bearing. He was so odd, standing there, so aggressive and explosive, bottle in one hand and test-tube in the other, that Mrs. Hall had the better of him. He laughed, and put his hand to the locked door. When she returned the room was silent again, save for the faint crepitation of his chair and the occasional clink of a bottle. The Invisible Man had him down grimly, but his arms were free and he struck and tried to kick savagely. The hour was about four, and the ultimate darkness of the night was past. Marvel, stared at the smashed window, and came round to the two other men. The stranger turned round with his back to the fireplace and put his hands behind his back. 'Looky there, Ted,' quoth the younger of the detectives, with the sharpness of surprise in his voice, and pointed straight to my feet. The blind was down and the room dim. "I didn't try to give you the slip," said Marvel, in a voice that was not far remote from tears. At the sight he stopped, gaping, then with the bottle still in his hand went upstairs again. "Yes," said the Invisible Man rapping it down. For a minute perhaps he sat, pen in mouth, admiring the rich golden colour above the crest, and then his attention was attracted by the little figure of a man, inky black, running over the hill-brow towards him. Once or twice a curious listener might have heard him at the coals, and for the space of five minutes he was audible pacing the room. When his nerves had been steadied by a glass of cheap sherry—the only drink the good vicar had available —he told him of the interview he had just had. It was the finest of all possible Whit Mondays, and down the village street stood a row of nearly a dozen booths, a shooting gallery, and on the grass by the forge were three yellow and chocolate waggons and some picturesque strangers of both sexes putting up a cocoanut shy. "Just to take me down a bit—that was his silly game—It's on the paper!" "Over the other side, my man," said Mr. But this was not a method, it was an idea, that might lead to a method by which it would be possible, without changing any other property of matter—except, in some instances colours—to lower the refractive index of a substance, solid or liquid, to that of air—so far as all practical purposes are concerned." They split a panel, I saw, and in another moment they had broken away the staples of the bolts and stood in the open doorway. Kemp stood in the middle of the room staring at the headless garment. It was late in the afternoon, and they were in the little beer-shop of Iping Hanger. And then something happened to his rear-most foot, and he went headlong and rolled sideways just in time to graze the feet of his brother and partner, following headlong. Hall just grasped the knife on the table in time to save it. said Kemp, "and how did you get like this?" Behind him as he was halfway up the inn steps he heard a sudden yell of rage, rising sharply out of the confusion of cries, and a sounding smack in someone's face. I was apathetic, and I tried in vain to recover the enthusiasm of my first inquiries, the passion of discovery that had enabled me to compass even the downfall of my father's grey hairs. He had snatched at the money forthwith and had been knocked headlong, and when he had got to his feet the butterfly money had vanished. And what you may be requiring in the way of help?—Invisible!" I shall never forget that dawn, and the strange horror of seeing that my hands had become as clouded glass, and watching them grow clearer and thinner as the day went by, until at last I could see the sickly disorder of my room through them, though I closed my transparent eyelids. said I. I said. "I'llshow him," shouted the man with the black beard, and suddenly a steel barrelshone over the policeman's shoulder, and five bullets had followed one another into the twilight whence the missile had come. "I have some luggage," he said, "at Bramblehurst station," and he asked her how he could have it sent. And there was another extraordinary thing he was presently to hear, that had happened quite close to him. There he stood on the dark little landing, wondering what it might be that he had seen. "I can't tell you to-night," he said. "I thought it was all a lie," he said. She could hear the murmur of voices for the next ten minutes, then a cry ofsurprise, a stirring of feet, a chair flung aside, a bark of laughter, quick steps to the door, and Cuss appeared, his face white, his eyes staring over his shoulder. Hall, "you'd prefer the clock—" "Certainly," said the stranger, "certainly—but, as a rule, I like to be alone and undisturbed. "I do," said Mr. If there's damage done, put it down in the bill," and he went on ticking a list in the exercise book before him. Half-way across the road a woman screamed as something pushed by her; a dog, kicked apparently, yelped and ran howling into Huxter's yard, and with that the transit of the Invisible Man was accomplished. It was the only way to cover my trail—and no doubt it was insured. "Right you are," said the intruder in the former voice. There was nothing in it, I tell you. Hall and Mrs. "Come in," said the bearded man in an undertone, standing back and facing the unbolted doors with his pistol behind him. "If you give me the slip again," said the Voice, "if you attempt to give me the slip again—" "Lord!" said Hall. He took a candle and went down to the dining-room in search of a syphon and whiskey. "You're safe," said the man with the black beard. What the devil keeps that sleeve up and open, if there's nothing in it? He held it out to me, saw something odd about my hands, I expect, and lifted his eyes to my face. "I prefer to keep them on," he said with emphasis, and she noticed that he wore big blue spectacles with sidelights, and had a bush side-whisker over his coatcollar that completely hid his cheeks and face. In the middle of the night she woke up dreaming of huge white heads like turnips, that came trailing after her, at the end of interminable necks, and with vast black eyes. There was Fearenside telling about it all over again for the second time; there was Mrs. He was visible again for a moment, and again, and then again, three times between the three detached houses that came next, and then the terrace hid him. Among others old Fletcher remembers seeing him, and indeed the old gentleman was so struck by his peculiar agitation that he inadvertently allowed a quantity of whitewash to run down the brush into the sleeve of his coat while regarding him. A diamond box would neither absorb much of the light nor reflect much from the general surface, but just here and there where the surfaces were favourable the light would be reflected and refracted, so that you would get a brilliant appearance of flashing reflections and translucencies—a sort of skeleton of light. "He ought to have it cauterised at once," said Mr. Immediately after, the stranger's hat hopped off the bedpost, described a whirling flight in the air through the better part of a circle, and then dashed straight at Mrs. The powdered glass and water have much the same refractive index; that is, the light undergoes very little refraction or reflection in passing from one to the other. You just missed en—" There was a disturbance behind, and the speaker stopped to step aside for a little procession that was marching very resolutely towards the house; first Mr. "I wish you wouldn't come in without knocking," he said in the tone of abnormal exasperation that seemed so characteristic of him. I want to know what you been doing t'my chair upstairs, and I want to know how 'tis your room was empty, and how you got in again. It was universally felt in the bar that Mrs. "Pull yourself together," said the Voice, "for you have to do the job I've chosen for you." "I should think it was enough," said the mariner. CHAPTER XVIII THE INVISIBLE MAN SLEEPS Exhausted and wounded as the Invisible Man was, he refused to accept Kemp's word that his freedom should be respected. "The windows are fastened and I've taken the key out of the door. 'I was saying,' said he, 'that there was the prescription burning, wasn't I?' "He don't want no help, he says," he said in answer to his wife's inquiry. When she took in his tea she saw broken glass in the corner of the room under the concave mirror, and a golden stain that had been carelessly wiped. Marvel, released, suddenly dropped to the ground and made an attempt to crawl behind the legs of the fighting men. At that he returned to his bedroom, armed himself with the most obvious weapon, the poker, and descended the staircase as noiselessly as possible. This done, he returned with an easier air to the table and his meal. "Then I became aware of a blare of music, and looking along the street saw a number of people advancing out of Russell Square, red shirts, and the banner of the Salvation Army to the fore. He was accompanied by a voice other than his own, and ever and again he winced under the touch of unseen hands. At that he turned and hurried down to her. The man was just on the boil, and my question boiled him over. "It's really," said Mr. And on the table under the window where the stranger had been wont to work, Cuss had hit almost at once on three big books in manuscript labelled "Diary." He'd stuck his hands in his pockets as I came in, and he sat down lumpily in his chair. There were a couple of trunks indeed, such as a rational man might need, but in addition there were a box of books—big, fat books, of which some were just in an incomprehensible handwriting—and a dozen or more crates, boxes, and cases, containing objects packed in straw, as it seemed to Hall, tugging with a casual curiosity at the straw—glass bottles. He was working in a room with an open fireplace, he said. At such times the slightest disturbance, the entry of a stranger into the room, is a source of excruciating annoyance to me—it is well these things should be understood." He was surprised to find that Mr. My back had now become very stiff and sore, my tonsils were painful from the cabman's fingers, and the skin of my neck had been scratched by his nails; my feet hurt exceedingly and I was lame from a little cut on one foot. "Pardon my intrusion," said Cuss, and then the door closed and cut Mrs. Abruptly the figure sat down, and before any one could realise was was being done, the slippers, socks, and trousers had been kicked off under the table. The Invisible Man sat down on the bed. He did not strike a light, but putting on his spectacles, her dressing-gown and his bath slippers, he went out on the landing to listen. He was a knowing man, was Mr. Should he remark that the weather was very cold for the time of year? "You know the red colouring matter of blood; it can be made white—colourless—and remain with all the functions it has now!" The door flew open while the barman hesitated, and Marvel was dragged into the kitchen. Finally he marched up the steps, and was seen by Mr. By the man pounded, and as he ran he chinked like a well-filled purse that is tossed to and fro. The bundle had been abandoned in the pine-woods beyond Bramblehurst, in accordance with a change in the plans of the Invisible Man. "Here you are," said the barman. "Let's have a hand of you," said Marvel, "if you are real. CHAPTER I THE STRANGE MAN'S ARRIVAL 
The stranger came early in February, one wintry day, through a biting wind and a driving snow, the last snowfall of the year, over the down, walking from Bramblehurst railway station, and carrying a little black portmanteau in his thickly gloved hand. The thought uppermost in his mind was the reiterated arguments of the morning. You can see down his collar and the linings of his clothes. And so, shivering, scared, and sniffing with the first intimations of a cold, and with the bruises in the small of my back growing upon my attention, I drove slowly along Oxford Street and past Tottenham Court Road.